What makes it even more brutal is often the people who need this service will not be in a financial position to afford this BECAUSE of the reason they are looking to get help with
I agree, my one even had a PayPal Pay in Four option. It was almost funny.
"Why don't you just go and talk to someone about your depression and a possible BPD/ADHD diagnosis?" -my retired parents with private healthcare.   This. This is why. Big rip OP, hopefully you're getting your money's worth, finding the right psychiatrist/psychologist is hard at the best of times.
Psychiatric care is a rich person privilege.
Yep. I had to save for five months to be able to afford a psychiatrist appointment last year.    Thank god I wasn't in crisis at the time, I feel so bad for the people who are but can't afford the outrageous cost.
Just paid $600 to see mine. She’s the best psychiatrist I’ve ever seen, the meds she’s put me on are making more of a difference than any of the meds I’ve tried in 20 years, but it takes me AGES to save up enough for one bloody appointment
I paid $350 for a 10 minute review the other day….
Where does that “billion dollars put into mental health” money go that governments always tout?
$150 for a 15 minute phone call to get a medication review.  I need an appointment but don’t really have the money right now due to other medical expenses.   Waiting for the Medicare safety net to kick in, few hundred to go
I was undergoing psychiatric treatment a few years ago.  I basically had to budget a couple of grand until I hit my safety net, and then the price seemed almost reasonable, but probably because I'd been conditioned to pay the higher rate for a while.
Yep.. I’m seeing one in June. $750 for new patient consultation. Already have all the collateral from a psychologist and mental health NP, just need him to prescribe ADHD medication / review my other medications.  I’m only on the disability pension, and thankfully due to chronic illness (lol) I’ve hit my extended Medicare safety net already, so I will get $500 back. But god damn. I’m seeing a neurosurgeon the same day, and he’s “only” $340!   Also- I need to travel to Brisbane for both these appointments from regional QLD. So I can either drive ($350-400 in petrol), take train and suffer additional pain ($50-100), or fly ($220-450). Cheapest accommodation I can find is $130/night in a caravan park. I’ve applied for the patient travel subsidy scheme, so I’ll get $140 for 2 nights accommodation and potentially mileage reimbursed for petrol. $100-200 cash for hotel safety deposit.  So for 2.5 days, it’ll be like $600 out of pocket not including food.   Medicare needs to be expanded to cover higher rates mental health.  My ADHD and autism assessment in January cost $1750 out of pocket, $500 I claimed on private health. No Medicare rebate attached.
The pollies are loving this. Instead of putting the blame squarely on them for not increasing the Medicare rebate we are calling doctors greedy, riding ADHD gravy trains, unscrupulous etc. just what they want us to do. If these fees bother you, call your local MP and tell them you will withhold your vote until they increase MBS rebates.
I haven't seen anybody mention the suggested fees guideline as set out by the AMA. I used to see a psychiatrist who maintained that he would only ever charge the AMA fee, which (back then) went up by $5 every year. My guess is that it's $415 by now, so any fee lower than this is, I suppose, charity on the part of the doctor. Any fee more than $450 is absolutely taking the extortionate piss.
Is this for ADHD? It’s absolutely abhorrent the amount people are expected to pay to get a diagnosis. It’s not like it’s really any *extra* or harder work for them. Absolute bullshit
I just paid $1k for my initialADHD.  I get to pay 200 more because I had a drink problem 3 years ago. Never seemed quite right especially since the extra work is in another appt
I live in Cairns. I can barely access the help I need because of this. And because the industry is desperately overworked up here.  My partner is suicidal and on Workers Comp, but is constantly knocked back for mental health help because the facilities are too busy or full
Whilst I agree with your general comments...  - A private psychiatrist isn't "life saving" mental health. As with all other health specialists (_think_ cardiology, dermatology, even oncology), the public system is there for "free" services. The private system takes the pressure off the public system but comes with out-of-pocket costs.  - Medicare do cover quite large chunks of these costs e.g. $440 rebate on those 45+ min appointments.  - If you DO NOT turn up to your appointment (which costs $800) how can the specialist recover those costs without taking a 50% upfront fee?  - Psychiatrists (private ones) aren't seeing a dozen patients a day... and they rarely see patients back-to-back... so these high costs reflect that. Medicare rebates don't factor that in.  - The costs of staffing and running a private clinic are extremely high... insurances, registrations, leases, admin staff, software and cybersecurity. These costs have risen enormously over the past decade. Medicare hasn't kept up (same as per primary care services i.e. GPs - who charge $100 for a 15-minute consult).
I've found MHCPs to be really useful, just not enough slots if you are in need beyond short-mid term. Psychiatry can be expy (my son just found a new one and was just under $1k for 2 sessions) but you do get medicare back from it, and you will hit your safety net.     However having had experience with psych, inpatient and people having significant mental health needs and struggling to find care - yeah 100% something we need to improve in Australia.
The pricing is a complete joke!  I’m currently on a med change taper and every fortnight I have to pay $250 for 15mins med review 15 mins at $250. Unbelievable and they wonder why mental health is in crisis!
Fucking hell, that is outrageous. They cannot possibly justify those prices.
I agree… mental health care in Australia is a joke!  That’s actually on the cheap side from experience  … And I had several expensive bad experiences over a decade before I found my doctor and received a proper diagnosis and help   I saw one guy for 8 months and he “didn’t believe in labels” …   It’s wild out there!  And I paid for private health cover through most of it… pays for nothing when it comes to specialists  It’s also a really strange experience to go to someone for help and getting hijacked for payment before the appointment (as you say)…   Then you might get in a waiting list for Medicare funded psychology but that will be like 6-12 months or so just to see someone random … but they’ll call you and offer to get you in next week if you can pay full freight   So yes, it’s absolutely not what you think it is until you need it and then you’re stuck with the reality… as well as everyone around looking from the outside in that think that help exists  Hope you find someone good early but don’t be discouraged if you don’t… keep trying because it does make a difference when you find “your doctor”
Fuck yeah I’ve had a 15 min consult cost $270 just so I could renew my adhd meds, something is broken. Yeah we get back some but eating the initial cost is a pain in the ass.
$1200 + $300 very 3 months for ADHD diagnosis.
I am going insane and i can't afford the help I need, i have locked myself up. I am scared.
I am changing psychiatrists as they retired and the new one, i am charged $700 for the first visit and then 600 from then on? Yes i may get some back from medicare, but If i lost my job or hit the financial skids, then what?  BUT, then we have people who are way fucking worst mentally then I am who could only dream of having that money...  FFS we really are backwards /rant.
Blame Tony Abbott and the LNP who disbanded the Health Workforce Agency which was established by Gillard to ensure there were adequate health workers in Australia and that Colleges trained adequate specialists.
I think the problem with psychiatry is that a lot of mental health issues can be invisible, which makes it tricky for a government to subsidise. There's not really a one size fits all approach either which equally makes it difficult to subsidise.
its a supply issue unfortunately, same as dental
You seem to be ignoring the fact they engage in high level training for 15 years so they can fix your problem. And that they are still some of the worst paid medical specialists.
In reality that’s about the average cost of any specialist - I see a specialist for about 5 mins and it’s $205
The way I'm going without essential medication because the public system won't prescribe it, my GP *can't* prescribe it, and I can't afford private telehealth consults (travelling isn't an option when you're regional and broke lol).  The mental health system in Australia is cooked.
In theory more people should see this and be motivated to become psychiatrists.   Does anyone know why this doesn't seem.to be working?
yeah this is why I undiagnosed myself. i can’t afford to keep going to get my prescriptions nowadays
I recently finally talked myself into going and the first appointment was $417. My next appointment is $215. I can probably afford once a month but it's a lot of money.
I’m paying $250 for a 15 minute video call, and that’s already rebated from $320. My private health, which is for FIRST RESPONDERS doesn’t cover psychiatry…..
It's crazy. The deposit thing is because apparently people seeing a psychologist or psychiatrist are extremely bad with timing.  I once was 2 minutes late for an appointment with a psychologist and apologised profusely. She said it was nothing and I was always extremely punctual. I said "Of course....no offence but do you know how much you cost?" And said said I'd be amazed if I knew.
I have to pay when I’m booking regardless of how far out the appointment is…
I remember trying to see a therapist because I was constantly stressed about providing for my family and had to stop because I couldn't afford the $300 every 45min appointment
The one perk of me going into a public mental heath psych ward was getting in front of a psychiatrist for free. Don’t get me wrong I had to insist multiple times in the 8 hours I was in the ER that I was a risk to myself before I got there. But if you’re in crisis EDs do have mental heath teams including psychiatrists
Don’t you get more than half rebated to you from Medicare? (I do)
Best to just get a Hobby to put your mind on that instead of falling for these Scams.
The subsidisation of these services has created greater demand for these services, above and beyond the ability for the market to meet demand. Combine that with the difficulty of actually providing the services and we now have shortages of services!
Genuine question how does the pricing work? Like why does the government get blamed for what they charge ? How’s it different from other things, price should be dictated by the market, so if not enough people pay it’ll come down?  Because when the govt subsidise an industry they pretty much always just get away with charging more
If only Australia has some natural resources that could be taxed appropriately to unsure everyone had their medical and mental health needs met... oh well
Hey at least millions are being poured into bullshit 'talk to a mate' awareness campaigns
If you are thinking of using hellodoc. Do not under any circumstance. They are horrible.
And then when someone commits suicide people who arent familiar with the system say things like” there’s so much help out there,if only they reached out.”I mean getting the money to see a psych is hard enough,then you wait months for an appt.And then you pay for any follow up appointments.And what’s the alternative? Beyond blue?Useless.Such a fucked up system.Anyone under NDIS I bet doesn’t get an appointment.Not when the greedy privatised service providers are pocketing the money.
My psychiatrist is $95 per visit, cash pay. Where the hell are people going?
My child ADHD initial &amp; assessment cost me $1k+. (Not money we could spare) He said that my child ticked over and above every box, and his opinion is 100% ADHD-inattentive however until it affects their schooling there isn’t much else we could do to help.
People don't know how it works in this country including GPs and don't realise you can get 12 month full reviews, 6 month med reviews and in acute cases reviews anytime all for free or at a significant lowered cost.   Look up 291 and 294 referrals.
Depending on where you are, the [Medicare Mental Health Centres](https://www.medicarementalhealth.gov.au/finding-help/medicare-mental-health-services#find-a-medicare-mental-health-centre-near-you) are meant to be taking pressure off the private system - their first goal in the [service model](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/national-service-model-medicare-mental-health-centres?language=en) is 'Medical assessment, including initiation or continuation of medication management where appropriate; and assistance with physical health needs from GPs, or psychiatrists/psychiatry trainees'.   They're meant to be like satellite hospitals for mental health and multidisciplinary drop in places you can rock up and get assessment and organise ongoing care all for free/minimal cost, but 1) they haven't seemed to have advertised it very well and 2) it seems to depend on what resources they already had in the local government area - some of my clients have gotten diagnosis, care and referral to ongoing public outpatient psychiatry services, other areas haven't seemed to have these referral pathways established.   Good luck!
"So what can we work on today? What's making you unhappy?"   "The cost of being here."
Psychology is a joke. Every professional I've ever met in this field has their own severe problems and usually started studying it to try and understand themselves.
I am legitimately terrified of the day that my psychiatrist of 10+ years retires. He is so reasonably priced ($260) and so thorough in his work that I actually feel good most days.  I know that without medication (which needs authority scripts) I am literally hours away from attempting suicide. I've missed taking a dose before, and the spiral starts REAL FAST.  The state of medicine in this country is rapidly deteriorating, becoming more and more the domain of the wealthy and privileged.
They all be riding the ADHD claim boom. They know it can’t last forever. Rivers of cash while it lasts
Also, consider for a moment the trent of using overseas mental health practitioners to deliver these services.. if you're not already depressed then you will be when you realise sadge
And thats if you can even secure an appointment with one. I suffer from treatment resistant depression and OCD and I was told my problems weren’t complex enough for an appointment.   So now I pay $220 (100 back from Medicare) every two weeks at a psychologist and then $100 (45 back) at the GP to try every different medication available.
That seems kind of scammy? Like, the rates my psychiatrist was charging (before he resigned this year) for adult ADHD/ASD assessments was just his hourly rate. Which was $220 earlier this year. (so if you had the 4hr assessment it was $880, 2hr followup interview $440 etc)  There's a whole cottage industry of scummy clinics/telehealth clinics built around mental health services and it makes me really angry. People need these services, they're vulnerable and will do almost anything to get answers to the questions of, "Why have I felt so fucked all my life???" and they're being exploited.  I don't think rates like this are the norm for established physical practices. If they are, then we're super fucked.
Fucking hell, this is double the cost of my ADHD psychiatrist.   $175 for 15+ mins, anything less hw bulk bills. $300 for 30 mins.   This is a fucking joke.
and they wonder why the mental health epidemic isnt getting better. $300+ now for psychologist appointments too!!!!   research shows that therapy once a week is usually the most optimal for most chronic mental health disorders. seeing a pysch + once a month shrink that's north of $1500+ a month which doesn't even take into account insurance for psych hospital stays, medications.  no one should be paying a premium just so they dont kill themselves from an illness they never asked for. this is evil, and we australians need to start doing something about it.
We should never have shut down psychiatric hospitals. Private hospitalisations aren’t affordable to the average psych patient in need and the public health system is too stretched.  Remove the stigma, not the psychiatric hospitals.
god that's cheaper than what I got 😭 1075 upfront for an hour slot that was under an hour  I will keep repeating. psychiatry is a money laundering scam. I get being paid for your training and speciality but a hundred bucks every ten minutes is fucken excessive.
I've always seen it more like the high tradie quote, being they really don't need or want the work...but if you're crazy enough (excuse the pun) to pay it then they'll slot you in...at their convenience.  That's been my takeaway.
It’s an appropriate cost for a highly trained and specialised professional. The problem is the government not providing adequate access to this necessary part of healthcare.
I’m a mental health clinician in the public system. I could never in good conscience charge people out-of-pocket for my work.
That’s crazy
I’ve got a $600 Telehealth on Wednesday 🫠
Hey, remember who wanted to put mental into Medicare?
Telepsychiatry is more expensive as they need to cater for interstate patients. West Australians are being advised to go telehealth as most of our own are not able to take new patients.
my psychiatrist bulk bills me.
I was thinking about seeking help for what I think might be depression, I guess I’ll just keep suffering 😂
I got a quote for my first consultantion, which is exclusively over zoom! Even though I'm in Sydney and only 30 mins away. And just that was $700 and had to be paid when making the appointment which wasn't for another month +, so yeah I have never seen a psychiatrist despite long term mental health issues, just have a GP and barely managed life with meds. It sucks really.
Wowzas, people really aren’t kidding when they say “_________  is cheaper than therapy” 😭
Bruh, I thought this was an American Subreddit for a sec, cause those prices are extortion by our screwed up standards.  You should chuck that CEO into a Cassowary enclosure.
The public system either has really long wait lists (private often does too) and/or the quality of care just isn’t there. One of my friends with complex mental health and trauma was constantly retraumatised by public psychologists and psychiatrists, misdiagnosed with bipolar and borderline, and put on medication with gnarly side effects that made her put on heaps of weight in a really short amount of time. She had to wait 6+ months to get into a better public mental health programme, which luckily did help her a lot, but by that time her mental health had deteriorated significantly.
At those price points, I'd rather take my chances. Hopefully, I won't off myself soon.
50% mine wants the whole thing in advance.on booking.  My last appointment was a real burn $600 for a script renewal... went to pharmacy oh nationwide shortage til xmas
Let me guess, ADHD, right?
Ah, sick. So I could get 10 TELE-HEALTH sessions for six fucken grand, or I could use that and buy a brand new PC which will at least alleviate some of my mental burdens
Fortunately, when I still lived in Germany, something like that was paid for via public health insurance
And the grubbers went on strike for more.
Given the cost, I have considered suing families sa for not providing support throughout foster care or when I was released from care. I didn't even get a hand shake from the minister when he was no longer my guardian
$1500!!!!!!!!
It is cheaper just being mental and drinking cups of concrete !
That's why so many use Chatgpt for therapy now. Available anytime you need it, for however long you need it.
All costs associated to standard of living are rising. Groceries, property, healthcare in some areas and overall inflation.  Most of these are correlated to mass immigration into Australia with over 500 000 in 2023. The healthcare costs are partly due to increase of demand which probably speaks to a decline in the average persons mental health. This is a logical conclusion I’ve drawn and the fact that higher demand means higher costs in an area like mental health is barbaric and unethical.
It's 175$ for 15 minutes at a walk-in here in Canada.  These numbers seem correct.
And apparently it was just tacked on the end of dental as an afterthought to add to Medicare. How is dental more important then mental health.. (Greens proposal.)
Better to go to a fortune teller. $50 for 60 minutes, you can tell all your problems the same way
