No one asked about Derby in the presser. Surprising.
Are we about to awaken a new Hess level   We got 2015 and 2016 early Hess which was amazing  We got switch to bench prop rotation Hess not as flashy but amazing.   Now we got dat rig Hess target the half Hess
Robert Derby with  Most line breaks Try saving tackle Try 25 runs 4 tackle breaks  Cleary with 0 try assists 3 missed tackles 10 runs  Penrith should consider dropping cleary and making a big money play for Robert Derby as their new #7  He had 5 errors and still outplayed their best player
Look where do I start  Yeah I don’t know I am a cows fan, we could win the next game by 50 or lose it by 50.   We could win the grand final or not make the 8.   Not a single person would question it.   I can’t start or end this post because this team is adhd, it’s an enigma. You don’t know what you will get
[removed]
that really was one of the footy games of all time. legit just taking this season in week by week, not expecting much from these kids. cbf doing deep analysis’ especially after the last five years. i just love my footy  edit: that being said ivan was absolute class in the post match, we shot ourselves 75’ onwards. toddy on the other hand is an angry little vegemite
End of the day we were 6 points away from 6 straight wins.   Thats if we +5 on warriors  + 1 today.
I felt like that was SpoonBowl based on ladder position, but Cows are now 5th and Panthers 16th?
I wanna hear Ivan as a commentator, bloke clearly loves his rugby league
Did someone punch Cleary in the head before he came on? Sounds like he has a concussion
Whomever this journo is is absolutely teeing up tomorrow's headlines
Cuddling with the dogs on the couch.   The game forced me to have more drinks than I am proud of.   I farted from it and even the dogs flinched
I am just waiting for the half in a forwards back to get sick of finding Tommy a partner and have someone oil up his body as he slides on a 6 or 7
Biased of course but I think that pass was flat.
**iStandWithToddy**
Somebody should mention the offside from the bomb that touched Scott Drinkwater's foot
Dearden sitting there like "please stop talking, please stop talking, please stop talking".
Both the first tries from each team had forward passes that should've been disallowed.
Todd is giving us the big teams calls presser. We are so having a good season soon
Purdue should be picked for Origin. Would be better than Holmes.
todd payten loves a good whinge.
This is going to end up with a bank transfer being made from one T Payton to NRL Pty Ltd
Todd Payten is such a miserable cunt every week.
Toddy shouldn’t be talking about tries off forward passes
Lol Toddy swearing
Payten going off on the refs
Feed em Toddy
Is Payton the biggest whiner in the NRL?
On our last try - watch Purdue. He’s knocked over and tangled after the flick. He still ends up ahead of the play he’s that fast. Love his support play
Todd ref blaming when half their points came from forward passes and they shanked 5 field goals.
That high shot penalty was a joke.
Did you know Franz Ferdinand's Chauffeur was Mitch Kenny's great grandfather. 
so has any team that was leading at half time win this round?
What was Liam Martin meant to do? He cant just disappear!
Tom dearden 4 origin?
I always knew Cleary would never beat superstar safe hands Robert Derby
Didn't see that coming. What an insane game.
I think I'm in the minority, but I'd love golden point to become golden try. Two teams throwing the kitchen sink at it to try get across the stripe would be a much better spectacle than the current scramble for a droppy. Probably be more outright draws too, which I don't mind.
As much as a draw sucks the fact is we’ve played Penrith twice this year and taken 3 points from those games so I’ll take it
After that ludicrous display I gotta be honest.   Latrell makes field goals look so easy.
I was thinking that Riff will go for the FG right before half time after/off the scrum as it would have been the higher percentage play, but they went for their predictable early kick
Wish we won but happy we didn’t lose
its not a loss, but a draw is just as satisfying when the panthers gave up a twelve point lead after vossy spent the first ten minutes banging on about how penrith are back.
What's Brandy whinging about everyone? (Not watching)
That Mitch Kenny dummy play works if he has the ability to then take the field goal shot as he had moved the markers enough for some space to take a snap shot off the left foot. Mat Rogers at Titans did it once
I am happy with a draw…
Being out right 16th is way better than being equal 16th
Cooper must hate sitting next to the entire Fox panel cause he argues with them every day
Riff have definitely improved but still some way off their best. Up by 12 with 10 to go a couple of years ago would have been a sure thing for them.
Edward’s &amp; Martin to play for NSW and the riff to fall further down the ladder…
Brandy is an absolute cuck. Just fuck off
Is Reynolds being fed things to say? He's got awkward delivery and keeps pausing
Cronk missing the point that Brandy and Reyno are making. Yes mate it’s execution, but if the officiating is completely different to the first 80 mins, how can you expect the ‘execution’ to be at a high level?
Purdue is going to be a superstar. Love him.
Edwards is surely nowhere near origin? He is so far off his best. He would be about 5th picked for me on form.
I turned this shit off at half time. Just like I did for every game this round so far. Fuck!!!!!!
I don't actually understand what the panel is yapping about... It was a draw, let's get on with our lives.
Brandy having a massive sook on the fox coverage is hilarious 
Can we get a lowlights package of the entire GP? What a fucking cluster in all aspects.
I will say, that's the most animated I've seen Ivan in a long time. Needs to get back to the sideline too!
Still on track for an Eels Panther Spoonbowl!  I think the OT summed up that game pretty well.
Voss first 10 minutes of the game " Panthers are back in cumming"   Draw
Go on brandy, admit that Martin should have been penalised for sitting in the ruck
Did anyone else notice Talagi picking up the ball offside after the Jenkins knock on in the first part of GP? He passed him the ball and I didn’t think Jenkins had run past him before he dropped it but they didn’t show a replay so I’m not sure. Anyway, if he was offside, it should have been a penalty in potentially kickable range rather than a scrum, and given Drinkwater was nailing them off the tee and shanking his FG shots it might have been interesting
Panthers draw and suddenly Brandy has an issue. Imagine that. Fuck off you flog.
soni luke played one random non-game off the bench where he overplayed his hand for 15min and got written off for the rest of time  and mitch kenny does this, smfh
Probably the best result for this game, neither team really deserved to win lol. GG cows.
Vossy was adamant that Cleary would nail his kick
Errrrrrr....1 point is better than a loss, I guess. Definitely the right round for it I suppose!
Why didn't Cowboys just headbutt a defenders chest and get the penalty? Are they stupid?
Mitch Kenny, the most dependable go to Cleary type of hooker, decided not to go to Cleary at the most inopportune time. There must be some kind of rift there, a kind of Pen-rift.
5 tries all. 30 points all. At the end of the day rugby league is the winner and both cowboys and panthers can go mad cow with a smile on their face. Well done. Good
If only talagi spent as much time in English class as he did on the footy field
New field goal defusing meta unlocked   Just fucking stand right next to the dummy half blocking any attempt at him passing the ball to the dude trying to kick it.
Gg cowbros. Neither team probably deserved to win lol I’m sure that was as infuriating for you all as it was for us.   Some real head scratchers - good that Blaize played well. Brian back helped. Defensively we are still pretty suspect - what is edge defence?   How we get a penalty for the high shot that lets us then score is beyond me, and how Martin can sit in the ruck at the end there is also beyond me. Cowboys two tries through clear forward passes, and a missed offside in the end of regular time that was also pretty clear. A mess all round.
Undefeated two games in a row…we are back baby!
